Update README.md (#1)
coveooss/platform-sdk: README.md

# Coveo C# Platform SDK
[![NuGet version (Coveo.Connectors.Utilities.PlatformSdk)](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Coveo.Connectors.Utilities.PlatformSdk.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Coveo.Connectors.Utilities.PlatformSdk/)

The official Coveo C# SDK allows your software to communicate with the Coveo Cloud Platform public APIs and the Push API.

> The package is .NET Standard 2.0 compatible thus works for .NET Core and .NET Framework

Reviewer: "thus" tout seul sonne un peu bizarre ici, je dirais plus "and thus works with" ou "and therefore works with". s à frameworks aussi.

Author: "and therefore works with" it is!

Pas de "s" a framework, framework ici fait partie du vrai nom du vieux dotnet

The code of the SDK is not open-source. This repository is meant to provide feedback, bug reporting, etc.

## Installation
Install the public NuGet package [Coveo.Connectors.Utilities.PlatformSdk](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Coveo.Connectors.Utilities.PlatformSdk/) in your C# project using your favorite IDE or NuGet command line.

The package is signed before being published to NuGet to avoid pulling a malicious package.
We provide the `PDBs` to have a better debugging experience.

> Documentation is available for most of public members and methods.

Author: ```suggestion
Documentation is available for most of the public members and methods.
```

## How to use the SDK
First, you need to instantiate the client to interact with the platform. Here is the minimum configuration you need to provide:

> 

Author: ** Each section below will redirect you to the privileges needed for the requests to work. For more information about API key privileges, visit [Privilege Reference](https://docs.coveo.com/en/1707/cloud-v2-administrators/privilege-reference).**

```csharp

> string apiKey = "Your api key with required rights";

Reviewer 2: Is it clear somewhere how to get an api key with required rights? Would you be worth adding a comment above to the Coveo Online Help about it like : https://docs.coveo.com/en/82/cloud-v2-developers/creating-an-api-key ?

Reviewer 3: Or the Api Key section of this page https://docs.coveo.com/en/1546/cloud-v2-administrators/add-or-edit-a-push-source#add-or-edit-a-push-source-1 which basically lets you check a box and automatically create a key with the correct privileges.

Author: Voir commentaire plus haut et celui que j'ai rajouté dans la section Push Api document

> string organizationId = "You organization ID";

Author: ```suggestion
string organizationId = "Your organization ID";
```

ICoveoPlatformConfig config = new CoveoPlatformConfig(apiKey, organizationId);
ICoveoPlatformClient client = new CoveoPlatformClient(config);
```

> By default, the package target the US production environment (platform.cloud.coveo.com). If you want to target the US HIPAA environment (platformhipaa.cloud.coveo.com) you can do it that way:

Author: ```suggestion
By default, the package targets the US production environment (platform.cloud.coveo.com). If you want to target the US HIPAA environment (platformhipaa.cloud.coveo.com) you can do it this way:
```

```csharp
string apiKey = "Your api key with required rights";

> string organizationId = "You organization ID";

Author: ```suggestion
string organizationId = "Your organization ID";
```

ICoveoPlatformConfig config = new CoveoPlatformConfig(Constants.Endpoint.UsEast1.HIPAA_PUSH_API_URL,
    Constants.PlatformEndpoint.UsEast1.HIPAA_PLATFORM_API_URL,
    apiKey,
    organizationId);
ICoveoPlatformClient client = new CoveoPlatformClient(config);
```

## Using the SDK to push documents to a Push API source

> Methods to interact with the Push API are part of `client.DocumentManager` object.

Author: ```suggestion
Methods to interact with the Push API are part of the `client.DocumentManager` object.
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
### Prerequisites
1. Ensure your API key has access to push documents inside a Push API source.
  * You can create an API key when creating a Push API source.
  * You can also create an API key manually. For more information about which privileges are required, visit [Privilege Reference](For more information about which privileges are required, visit [Privilege Reference](https://docs.coveo.com/en/1707/cloud-v2-administrators/privilege-reference#sources-domain).
1. Create a Push API source. For more information, visit [Add or Edit a Push Source](https://docs.coveo.com/en/1546/cloud-v2-administrators/add-or-edit-a-push-source).
```

### Pushing a batch of documents

> For overall performance, it is better to push your documents in batch. Use the single document method when batches are not required to meet both your performance and volume requirement. For more information, visit [Managing Batches of Items in a Push Source](https://docs.coveo.com/en/90/cloud-v2-developers/managing-batches-of-items-in-a-push-source).

Author: ```suggestion
For overall performance, it is better to push your documents in batches. Use the single document method when batches are not required to meet both your performance and volume requirements. For more information, visit [Managing Batches of Items in a Push Source](https://docs.coveo.com/en/90/cloud-v2-developers/managing-batches-of-items-in-a-push-source).
```

```csharp
string sourceId = "your Push API source ID";
PushDocument document = new PushDocument("https://coveo.com") {
    ClickableUri = "https://www.coveo.com",
    ModifiedDate = DateTime.UtcNow
};

document.AddMetadata("title", "Coveo's home page.");

PushDocumentHelper.SetContent(document, "this is Coveo's website home page.");

client.DocumentManager.AddOrUpdateDocument(sourceId, document, null);
```
**Good to know:**
* The `SetContent` method has an overload taking a Stream instead of a string.

> * The PushDocumentHelper class has also the method `SetContentFromFile` taking a file path.

Author: ```suggestion
* The PushDocumentHelper class has also the method `SetContentFromFile` taking a file path as an argument.
```

* The third argument in `AddOrUpdateDocument` is the ordering ID. If you don't provide a value, the SDK will create one using a timestamp to ensure the changes are performed in the order they were received. For more information about ordering ID, visit [Understanding the orderingId Parameter](https://docs.coveo.com/en/147/cloud-v2-developers/understanding-the-orderingid-parameter).
* The call returns the generated ordering ID if you did not specify one. You can store it. It can be useful to delete a batch of documents.

### Pushing a batch of documents

> For overall performance, it is better to push your documents in batch.

Reviewer 2: in a batch , or in batches

Author: ```suggestion
For overall performance, it is better to push your documents in batches
```

> For overall performance, it is better to push your documents in batch.

Reviewer 3: I would place batch first and add "... Use the single document method when batches are not required to meet both your performance and volume requirement." Or something along those lines.

```csharp
PushDocument firstDocumentToAdd = new PushDocument("http://www.coveo.com/page1") {
    ClickableUri = "http://www.coveo.com/page1",
    ModifiedDate = DateTime.UtcNow
};

PushDocument secondDocumentToAdd = new PushDocument("http://www.coveo.com/page2") {
    ClickableUri = "http://www.coveo.com/page2",
    ModifiedDate = DateTime.UtcNow
};

IList<PushDocument> documentsToAdd = new List<PushDocument> {
    firstDocumentToAdd,
    secondDocumentToAdd
};

client.DocumentManager.AddOrUpdateDocuments(sourceId, documentsToAdd, null);
```

### Pushing a document with big properties

> In case the size of the document you just created is too big, the SDK does not handle it if you use the call to index a single document. Take note that if you always use the batched call the SDK will handle it automatically.

Reviewer 3: What happens in that case? An exception is thrown and you can try based on that?

Author: ```suggestion
test
```

Author: ```suggestion
In case the size of the document you just created is too big, the SDK does not handle it if you use the call to index a single document. If the whole document is larger than 256MB, it will throw an `ArgumentException`. If the document is larger than 5MB, it will throw a `CoveoPlatformException` including the status code (500) and `Internal server error` inside `ErrorMessage` property. Take note that if you always use the batched call the SDK will handle it automatically.
```

Reviewer: `In case the size of the document you just created is too big, the SDK does not handle it if you use the call to index a single document. If the whole document is larger than 256MB, it will throw an `ArgumentException`. If the document is larger than 5MB, it will throw a `CoveoPlatformException` including the status code (500) and `Internal server error` inside `ErrorMessage` property. Take note that if you always use the batched call the SDK will handle it automatically.`

In that case you have 2 options:
* You can add the document using the batched call `client.DocumentManager.AddOrUpdateDocuments`
* You can also check for the document size and then decide if you use `client.DocumentManager.AddOrUpdateDocument` or `client.DocumentManager.AddOrUpdateDocuments`
```csharp
document.JsonObjectSize > Constants.COMPRESSED_DATA_MAX_SIZE_IN_BYTES
```

### Pushing a document with a large binary data

> The Push API has a hard limit of 5MB (compressed) for the document's binary data. When the data exceed that value we need to request an upload URI to an S3 bucket to put the document's binary data in it and refer to that ID when pushing the document in the Push API. However, lucky you, the SDK handles this automatically. Thus, the SDK compresses the content, and if it exceeds 5MB (compressed), it will do the needed logic. Take note that the maximum size of a document is 256MB (compressed). 

Reviewer 2: exceeds

Author: ```suggestion
The Push API has a hard limit of 5MB (compressed) for the document's binary data. When the data exceeds that value we need to request an upload URI to an S3 bucket to put the document's binary data in it and refer to that ID when pushing the document in the Push API. However, lucky you, the SDK handles this automatically. Thus, the SDK compresses the content, and if it exceeds 5MB (compressed), it will do the needed logic. Take note that the maximum size of a document is 256MB (compressed). 
```

### Delete a single document
```csharp
string documentId = "https://coveo.com";
client.DocumentManager.DeleteDocument(sourceId, documentId, null);
```
**Good to know:**
* Prefer deleting documents in batches to save API calls and to have a better application performance.

### Delete a batch of documents
```csharp
IList<string> documentsIdstoDelete = new List<string> {
    "https://coveo.com",

>     "https://coveo.com/a page"

Author: 🍡

};
client.DocumentManager.DeleteDocuments(sourceId, documentsIdstoDelete, null);
```

### Delete a specific document and its children
You can delete a specific document and all its children easily. For more information about deleting a document and its children, visit [Deleting an Item and Optionally, its Children in a Push Source](https://docs.coveo.com/en/171/cloud-v2-developers/deleting-an-item-and-optionally-its-children-in-a-push-source)

> For example, imagine you have added a document with an ID of `http://coveo.com/parent` and another document with an ID of `http://coveo.com/parent/child`. Clearly, it this example, the second document is the child of the former. To delete a document and all its children, it is pretty easy:

Reviewer 2: in this example

Author: ```suggestion
In this example, imagine you have added a document with an ID of `http://coveo.com/parent` and another document with an ID of `http://coveo.com/parent/child`. Clearly, it this example, the second document is the child of the former. To delete a document and all its children, it is pretty easy:
```

```csharp
PushDocument firstDocumentToAdd = new PushDocument("http://www.coveo.com/page/child") {
    ClickableUri = "http://www.coveo.com/page/child",
    ModifiedDate = DateTime.UtcNow
};

PushDocument secondDocumentToAdd = new PushDocument("http://www.coveo.com/page/child/child") {
    ClickableUri = "http://www.coveo.com/page/child/child",
    ModifiedDate = DateTime.UtcNow
};

IList<PushDocument> documentsToAdd = new List<PushDocument> {
    firstDocumentToAdd,
    secondDocumentToAdd
};

IList<string> documentsToDelete = new List<string> {
    "http://coveo.com/parent/child",
    "http://coveo.com/parent"
};

client.DocumentManager.AddOrUpdateDocuments(sourceId, documentsToAdd, documentsToDelete, null);
```

## Adding securities to your documents
You can add securities to documents, so only allowed users or groups can view the document. To learn how to format your permissions, see [Push API Tutorial 2 - Managing Secured Content](https://docs.coveo.com/en/98/cloud-v2-developers/push-api-tutorial-2---managing-secured-content).

### Prerequisites
1. Create or update your source to be secured.

> 1. Ensure your API key has access to create security provider.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Ensure your API key has the required privileges to create a security provider. For more information about which privileges are required, visit [Privilege Reference](https://docs.coveo.com/en/1707/cloud-v2-administrators/privilege-reference#security-identities-domain).
```

Mieux?

1. Create an `Expanded` security provider that cascades to `Email Security Provider` and link it to your source. Here is an example using the SDK:
```csharp
string expandedProviderId = "The unique name you want";
client.SecurityProviderManager.AddOrUpdateExpandedProviderAssociatedToEmailProvider(expandedProviderId, new List<string> { sourceId }, false);
```
**Good to know:**
* The third argument of `AddOrUpdateExpandedProviderAssociatedToEmailProvider` is whether the provider is case-sensitive or not. If false, `acme\jdoe` is the same as `acme\JDOE`.

> ### Add simple permission to the document

Reviewer: "permissions", peut-être?

Author: ```suggestion
### Add simple permissions to the document
```

PermissionIdentity user = new PermissionIdentity(@"acme\johndoe", PermissionIdentityType.User);
PermissionIdentity group = new PermissionIdentity(@"acme\team", PermissionIdentityType.Group);

document.SetSimpleAllowedAndDeniedPermissions(new List<PermissionIdentity>{ user, group }, new List<PermissionIdentity>());

client.DocumentManager.AddOrUpdateDocument(sourceId, document, null);

// Push the permission mapping for a user from Active Directory to email.
PermissionIdentityBody userBody = new PermissionIdentityBody(user);
userBody.Mappings.Add(new PermissionIdentity("johndoe@acme.com", PermissionIdentityType.User));

// Push the permission mapping for a group from Active Directory to email.
PermissionIdentityBody groupBody = new PermissionIdentityBody(group);
groupBody.Mappings.Add(new PermissionIdentity("teammember1@team.acme.com", PermissionIdentityType.User));
groupBody.Mappings.Add(new PermissionIdentity("teammember2@team.acme.com", PermissionIdentityType.User));

client.PermissionManager.AddOrUpdateIdentity(expandedProviderId, null, userBody);
client.PermissionManager.AddOrUpdateIdentity(expandedProviderId, null, groupBody);
```

### Push identities in batch

> If possible, you should push the identity in batch.

Reviewer: "identities"

Author: ```suggestion
For overall performance, it is better to push your identities in batches.
```

        Members = new List<PermissionIdentity> {
            member1,
            member2
        }
    }
};

// Push user mappings and group members in one batched operation.
client.PermissionManager.AddOrUpdateIdentities(expandedProviderId, null, mappingsMembersToAddOrUpdate.Concat(membersToAddOrUpdate).ToList());
```

### Disable a single identity
You can easily disable an identity. For more information, visit [Disabling a Single Security Identity](https://docs.coveo.com/en/84/cloud-v2-developers/disabling-a-single-security-identity).
```csharp
client.PermissionManager.DeleteIdentity(expandedProviderId, new PermissionIdentity(@"acme\johndoe", PermissionIdentityType.User));
```

### Disable identities in batch
```csharp
IList<PermissionIdentity> identitiesToDelete = new List<PermissionIdentity> {
    new PermissionIdentity(@"acme\member1", PermissionIdentityType.User),
    new PermissionIdentity(@"acme\member2", PermissionIdentityType.User)
};

client.PermissionManager.DeleteIdentities(expandedProviderId, null, identitiesToDelete);
```

### Disable identities older than a specific ordering ID

> Same as the documents, you can disable identities that have an ordering ID smaller than the one you provide

Reviewer: Manque un point à la fin.

```csharp
client.PermissionManager.AddOrUpdateIdentity(expandedProviderId, 100, new PermissionIdentityBody(new PermissionIdentity(@"acme\tobedeleted3", PermissionIdentityType.User)));
client.PermissionManager.AddOrUpdateIdentity(expandedProviderId, 200, new PermissionIdentityBody(new PermissionIdentity(@"acme\tobedeleted4", PermissionIdentityType.User)));

// Wait a little bit, then disable all identities with an ordering ID less than 300.
client.PermissionManager.DeleteIdentitiesOlderThan(expandedProviderId, 300);
```

> 

Reviewer: Enlever la ligne ici ou en mettre avant tous les 'good to know'?

Author: Jcrois que un saut de ligne ici c'est pas représentatif du document, alors je vais l'enlever pour etre pareil partout!

```suggestion
```

**Good to know:**
* As for `DeleteDocumentsOlderThan`, there is a processing delay. 

> ### Add complex permission to a document

Reviewer: "permissions"?

Author: ```suggestion
### Add complex permissions to a document
```

> * As for `DeleteDocumentsOlderThan`, there is a processing delay. However, it is not configurable for this call.

Reviewer 3: Can we refer to the doc to explain what that delay is. It's not easy to understand what that means when you are not from Coveo, and even then ;)

Author: yes jlai rajouté, je l'avais deja mis dans le DeleteDocumentsOlderThan mais bon jvais le rajouter :P

Author: ```suggestion
* As for `DeleteDocumentsOlderThan`, there is a processing delay. However, it is not configurable for this call. For more information about processing delay, visit [QueueDelay](https://docs.coveo.com/en/131/cloud-v2-developers/deleting-old-items-in-a-push-source). 
```

> The permission model of your system might be more complicated, thus, simple permission might not be enough to secure your documents. Below is an example of having two levels. One for the `Administrator` of the system and the other one for standard users. For more information, visit [Complex Permission Model Definition Example](https://docs.coveo.com/en/25/cloud-v2-developers/complex-permission-model-definition-example).

Reviewer: "permissions".

Author: ```suggestion
The permission model of your system might be more complicated, thus, simple permissions might not be enough to secure your documents. Below is an example of having two levels. One for the `Administrator` of the system and the other one for standard users. For more information, visit [Complex Permission Model Definition Example](https://docs.coveo.com/en/25/cloud-v2-developers/complex-permission-model-definition-example).
```

PermissionIdentityBody bodyAllowedMember = new PermissionIdentityBody(allowedMember);
bodyAllowedMember.Mappings.Add(new PermissionIdentity("john@acme.com", PermissionIdentityType.User));

PermissionIdentityBody bodyDeniedMember = new PermissionIdentityBody(deniedMember);
bodyDeniedMember.Mappings.Add(new PermissionIdentity("cannotaccess@acme.com", PermissionIdentityType.User));

PermissionIdentityBody bodyAdmin = new PermissionIdentityBody(admin);
bodyAdmin.Mappings.Add(new PermissionIdentity("admin@acme.com", PermissionIdentityType.User));

List<PermissionIdentityBody> mappingsMembersToAddOrUpdate = new List<PermissionIdentityBody> {
    bodyAllowedMember,
    bodyDeniedMember,
    bodyAdmin
};

// Push user mappings and group members in one batched operation.
client.PermissionManager.AddOrUpdateIdentities(expandedProviderId, null, mappingsMembersToAddOrUpdate);
```

## Activate logging
The SDK uses `log4net` as its logging library. It can be useful to have some logs in case of a problem. In your log4net configuration, add a logger with `Coveo` as the name. We use namespaces as logger name. Using `Coveo` as the logger name will get you all the logs from the SDK. 

> 

Reviewer: Enlever la ligne vide ou en mettre pour tous les 'good to know'?

Author: ```suggestion
```

**Good to know:**
* If you activate `Trace` level, you will get information about requests made by the SDK.

## Explore!

> Feel free to explore the other `Managers` that the `ICoveoPlatformClient` provides to you. Don't hesitate to provides us feedback, report bugs if any, and ask for a feature!

Reviewer: "to provide"

Author: ```suggestion
Feel free to explore the other `Managers` that the `ICoveoPlatformClient` provides to you. Don't hesitate to provide us feedback, report bugs if any, and ask for a feature!
```

The official Coveo C# SDK allows your software to communicate with the Coveo Cloud Platform public APIs and the Push API.

The package is .NET Standard 2.0 compatible and therefore works with .NET Core and .NET Framework

The code of the SDK is not open-source. This repository is meant to provide feedback, bug reporting, etc.

## Installation
Install the public NuGet package [Coveo.Connectors.Utilities.PlatformSdk](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Coveo.Connectors.Utilities.PlatformSdk/) in your C# project using your favorite IDE or NuGet command line.

The package is signed before being published to NuGet to avoid pulling a malicious package.
We provide the `PDBs` to have a better debugging experience.
Documentation is available for most of the public members and methods.

## How to use the SDK
First, you need to instantiate the client to interact with the platform. Here is the minimum configuration you need to provide:

** Each section below will redirect you to the privileges needed for the requests to work. For more information about API key privileges, visit [Privilege Reference](https://docs.coveo.com/en/1707/cloud-v2-administrators/privilege-reference).**

> ```csharp

Author: ```suggestion

```csharp
```

# Coveo C# Platform SDK
[![NuGet version (Coveo.Connectors.Utilities.PlatformSdk)](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Coveo.Connectors.Utilities.PlatformSdk.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Coveo.Connectors.Utilities.PlatformSdk/)

The official Coveo C# SDK allows your software to communicate with the Coveo Cloud Platform public APIs and the Push API.

> The package is .NET Standard 2.0 compatible and therefore works with .NET Core and .NET Framework

Reviewer 4: missing period at the end

Author: ```suggestion
The package is .NET Standard 2.0 compatible and therefore works with .NET Core and .NET Framework.
```

> The code of the SDK is not open-source. This repository is meant to provide feedback, bug reporting, etc.

Reviewer 4: to provide feedback -> to handle feedback

Author: ```suggestion
The code of the SDK is not open-source. This repository is meant to handle feedback, bug reporting, etc.
```

## Installation
Install the public NuGet package [Coveo.Connectors.Utilities.PlatformSdk](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Coveo.Connectors.Utilities.PlatformSdk/) in your C# project using your favorite IDE or NuGet command line.

The package is signed before being published to NuGet to avoid pulling a malicious package.
We provide the `PDBs` to have a better debugging experience.

> Documentation is available for most of the public members and methods.

Reviewer 4: Not sure which documentation you're referring to here. You you mean this readme? Or the online documentation in docs.coveo.com? Or something in the code itself?
I suggest rephrasing to clarify :)

Author: ```suggestion
The code documentation is generated and is available for most of the public members and methods.
```

## How to use the SDK
First, you need to instantiate the client to interact with the platform. Here is the minimum configuration you need to provide:

** Each section below will redirect you to the privileges needed for the requests to work. For more information about API key privileges, visit [Privilege Reference](https://docs.coveo.com/en/1707/cloud-v2-administrators/privilege-reference).**

```csharp

> string apiKey = "Your api key with required rights";

Reviewer 4: I'd say "privileges" rather than "rights", so it fits better with the online documentation.

Reviewer 4: this comment applies to other occurrences :)

Author: ```suggestion
string apiKey = "Your API key with required privileges";
```

string organizationId = "Your organization ID";
ICoveoPlatformConfig config = new CoveoPlatformConfig(apiKey, organizationId);
ICoveoPlatformClient client = new CoveoPlatformClient(config);
```

By default, the package targets the US production environment (platform.cloud.coveo.com). If you want to target the US HIPAA environment (platformhipaa.cloud.coveo.com) you can do it this way:

```csharp

> string apiKey = "Your api key with required rights";

Author: ```suggestion
string apiKey = "Your API key with the required privileges";
```

string organizationId = "Your organization ID";
ICoveoPlatformConfig config = new CoveoPlatformConfig(Constants.Endpoint.UsEast1.HIPAA_PUSH_API_URL,
    Constants.PlatformEndpoint.UsEast1.HIPAA_PLATFORM_API_URL,
    apiKey,
    organizationId);
ICoveoPlatformClient client = new CoveoPlatformClient(config);
```

> ## Using the SDK to push documents to a Push API source

Reviewer 4: Push API source -> Push source

Author: ```suggestion
## Using the SDK to push documents to a Push source
```

Methods to interact with the Push API are part of the `client.DocumentManager` object.
### Prerequisites

> 1. Ensure your API key has access to push documents inside a Push API source.

Reviewer 4: If by "access" you mean "privilege", I'd write "privilege" instead.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Ensure your API key has the required privilege to push documents inside a Push API source.
```

  * You can create an API key when creating a Push API source.

>   * You can also create an API key manually. For more information about which privileges are required, visit [Privilege Reference](For more information about which privileges are required, visit [Privilege Reference](https://docs.coveo.com/en/1707/cloud-v2-administrators/privilege-reference#sources-domain).

Reviewer 4: Copy paste issue here in the link

Author: ```suggestion
  * You can also create an API key manually. For more information about which privileges are required, visit [Privilege Reference](https://docs.coveo.com/en/1707/cloud-v2-administrators/privilege-reference#sources-domain).
```

> 1. Create a Push API source. For more information, visit [Add or Edit a Push Source](https://docs.coveo.com/en/1546/cloud-v2-administrators/add-or-edit-a-push-source).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. [Create a Push API source.](https://docs.coveo.com/en/1546/cloud-v2-administrators/add-or-edit-a-push-source)
```

### Pushing a batch of documents
For overall performance, it is better to push your documents in batches. Use the single document method when batches are not required to meet both your performance and volume requirements. For more information, visit [Managing Batches of Items in a Push Source](https://docs.coveo.com/en/90/cloud-v2-developers/managing-batches-of-items-in-a-push-source).

```csharp
PushDocument firstDocumentToAdd = new PushDocument("http://www.coveo.com/page1") {
    ClickableUri = "http://www.coveo.com/page1",
    ModifiedDate = DateTime.UtcNow
};

PushDocument secondDocumentToAdd = new PushDocument("http://www.coveo.com/page2") {
    ClickableUri = "http://www.coveo.com/page2",
    ModifiedDate = DateTime.UtcNow
};

IList<PushDocument> documentsToAdd = new List<PushDocument> {
    firstDocumentToAdd,
    secondDocumentToAdd
};

client.DocumentManager.AddOrUpdateDocuments(sourceId, documentsToAdd, null);
```
### Pushing a single document

> You should only use this method when you want to add or update a single document. Pushing several documents using this method may lead to the `429 - Too Many Requests` response from the Coveo platform and decrease the overall performance time of your application.

Reviewer 4: "decrease the overall performance time..." is a bit ambiguous, I suggest just writing: "decrease the overall performance..."

Author: ```suggestion
You should only use this method when you want to add or update a single document. Pushing several documents using this method may lead to the `429 - Too Many Requests` response from the Coveo platform and decrease the overall performance of your application.
```

```csharp
string sourceId = "your Push API source ID";
PushDocument document = new PushDocument("https://coveo.com") {
    ClickableUri = "https://www.coveo.com",
    ModifiedDate = DateTime.UtcNow
};

document.AddMetadata("title", "Coveo's home page.");

PushDocumentHelper.SetContent(document, "this is Coveo's website home page.");

client.DocumentManager.AddOrUpdateDocument(sourceId, document, null);
```

**Good to know:**
* The `SetContent` method has an overload taking a Stream instead of a string.

> * The PushDocumentHelper class has also the method `SetContentFromFile` taking a file path as an argument.

Reviewer 4: "has also the method `SetContentFromFile`..." -> "also has a `SetContentFromFile` method..."

Author: ```suggestion
* The PushDocumentHelper class also has a  `SetContentFromFile` method taking a file path as an argument.
```

> * The third argument in `AddOrUpdateDocument` is the ordering ID. If you don't provide a value, the SDK will create one using a timestamp to ensure the changes are performed in the order they were received. For more information about ordering ID, visit [Understanding the orderingId Parameter](https://docs.coveo.com/en/147/cloud-v2-developers/understanding-the-orderingid-parameter).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* The third argument in `AddOrUpdateDocument` is the [ordering ID](https://docs.coveo.com/en/147/cloud-v2-developers/understanding-the-orderingid-parameter). If you don't provide a value, the SDK will create one using a timestamp to ensure the changes are performed in the order they were received. 
```

* The call returns the generated ordering ID if you did not specify one. You can store it. It can be useful to delete a batch of documents.

> ### Pushing a document with big properties

Reviewer 4: How about simply "Pushing a large document"? If not, how about "Pushing a document with large properties"?

Author: Large document is ambiguous, it can refer to a large binary data or the whole json itself (metadata)

```suggestion
### Pushing a document with large properties
```

> In case the size of the document you just created is too big, the SDK does not handle it if you use the call to index a single document. If the whole document is larger than 256MB, it will throw an `ArgumentException`. If the document is larger than 5MB, it will throw a `CoveoPlatformException` including the status code (500) and `Internal server error` inside the `ErrorMessage` property. Take note that if you always use the batched call the SDK will handle it automatically.

Reviewer 4: hmmm... What do you mean by "handle it" here? The error will still be thrown anyways, right?
With an answer to that question I'll be able to make suggestions on how to rephrase a few things here :)

Author: Si on utilise le call batcher, le SDK s'occupe de faire la logic nécessaire pour indexer le document, et donc pas d'erreur.

Sauf si le document est plus gros que 256mb, call batcher ou pas ca marche pas

> In case the size of the document you just created is too big, the SDK does not handle it if you use the call to index a single document. If the whole document is larger than 256MB, it will throw an `ArgumentException`. If the document is larger than 5MB, it will throw a `CoveoPlatformException` including the status code (500) and `Internal server error` inside the `ErrorMessage` property. Take note that if you always use the batched call the SDK will handle it automatically.

Author: Ouais ben ca demande au push un upload uri dans un bucket S3 et ca met l'entiereter du document là! Meme chose pour les batches, ca envoit les documents dans un fichier dans un bucket s3. Sinon ca utilise le call d'api pour ajouter une document direct

In that case you have 2 options:

> * You can add the document using the batched call `client.DocumentManager.AddOrUpdateDocuments`

Reviewer 4: Typically, what I see in documentation is "bacth call", not "batched call".

Author: ```suggestion
* You can add the document using the batch call `client.DocumentManager.AddOrUpdateDocuments`
```

> * You can also check for the document size and then decide if you use `client.DocumentManager.AddOrUpdateDocument` or `client.DocumentManager.AddOrUpdateDocuments`

Reviewer 4: "if you use" -> "whether to use"

Author: ```suggestion
* You can also check for the document size and then decide whether to use `client.DocumentManager.AddOrUpdateDocument` or `client.DocumentManager.AddOrUpdateDocuments`
```

```csharp
document.JsonObjectSize > Constants.COMPRESSED_DATA_MAX_SIZE_IN_BYTES
```

> ### Pushing a document with a large binary data

Reviewer 4: "with a large binary data" -> "large binary data size"

Author: ```suggestion
### Pushing a document with large binary data size
```

> The Push API has a hard limit of 5MB (compressed) for the document's binary data. When the data exceeds that value we need to request an upload URI to an S3 bucket to put the document's binary data in it and refer to that ID when pushing the document in the Push API. However, lucky you, the SDK handles this automatically. Thus, the SDK compresses the content, and if it exceeds 5MB (compressed), it will do the needed logic. Take note that the maximum size of a document is 256MB (compressed). 

Reviewer 4: "(compressed) for the" -> "(compressed) on the"
"When the data exceeds that value we need to request an upload URI to an S3 bucket to put the document's binary data in it and refer to that ID when pushing the document in the Push API." ->
"When the size exceeds that value you typically need to request an upload URI to an S3 Bucket. You would then put your document binary data in that bucket and refer to it by ID when pushing the target document with the Push API."

Author: ```suggestion
The Push API has a hard limit of 5MB (compressed) on the document's binary data. When the size exceeds that value you typically need to request an upload URI to an S3 Bucket. You would then put your document binary data in that bucket and refer to it by ID when pushing the target document with the Push API. However, lucky you, the SDK handles this automatically. Thus, the SDK compresses the content, and if it exceeds 5MB (compressed), it will do the needed logic. Take note that the maximum size of a document is 256MB (compressed). 
```

### Delete a single document
```csharp
string documentId = "https://coveo.com";
client.DocumentManager.DeleteDocument(sourceId, documentId, null);
```
**Good to know:**

> * Prefer deleting documents in batches to save API calls and to have a better application performance.

Reviewer 4: "Prefer deleting" -> "Favor deleting"
("prefer" is about taste rather than recommending)

Author: ```suggestion
* Favor deleting documents in batches to save API calls and to have a better application performance.
```

### Delete a batch of documents
```csharp
IList<string> documentsIdstoDelete = new List<string> {
    "https://coveo.com",
    "https://coveo.com/a page"
};
client.DocumentManager.DeleteDocuments(sourceId, documentsIdstoDelete, null);
```

### Delete a specific document and its children

> You can delete a specific document and all its children easily. For more information about deleting a document and its children, visit [Deleting an Item and Optionally, its Children in a Push Source](https://docs.coveo.com/en/171/cloud-v2-developers/deleting-an-item-and-optionally-its-children-in-a-push-source)

Reviewer 4: "all its" -> "all of its"

Author: ```suggestion
You can delete a specific document and all of its children easily. For more information about deleting a document and its children, visit [Deleting an Item and Optionally, its Children in a Push Source](https://docs.coveo.com/en/171/cloud-v2-developers/deleting-an-item-and-optionally-its-children-in-a-push-source)
```

> In this example, imagine you have added a document with an ID of `http://coveo.com/parent` and another document with an ID of `http://coveo.com/parent/child`. Clearly, it this example, the second document is the child of the former. To delete a document and all its children, it is pretty easy:

Reviewer 4: "To delete a document and all its children, it is pretty easy:" -> "To delete the parent and child documents:"

(it's generally a bad practice to mention that something is "easy" or "simple" in technical documentation. It tends to frustrate people who have issues, and does not really bring value to people who are not having issues)

Author: ```suggestion
In this example, imagine you have added a document with an ID of `http://coveo.com/parent` and another document with an ID of `http://coveo.com/parent/child`. Clearly, it this example, the second document is the child of the former. To delete the parent and child documents:
```

```
**Good to know:**
* The third argument in `DeleteDocumentsOlderThan` is the processing delay. When passing `null`, it uses the default value of 15 minutes. For more information about processing delay, visit [QueueDelay](https://docs.coveo.com/en/131/cloud-v2-developers/deleting-old-items-in-a-push-source). 

### Combine delete and add
You can combine a batch of documents to be deleted and a batch of documents to be added in the same call.
```csharp
PushDocument firstDocumentToAdd = new PushDocument("http://www.coveo.com/page/child") {
    ClickableUri = "http://www.coveo.com/page/child",
    ModifiedDate = DateTime.UtcNow
};

PushDocument secondDocumentToAdd = new PushDocument("http://www.coveo.com/page/child/child") {
    ClickableUri = "http://www.coveo.com/page/child/child",
    ModifiedDate = DateTime.UtcNow
};

IList<PushDocument> documentsToAdd = new List<PushDocument> {
    firstDocumentToAdd,
    secondDocumentToAdd
};

IList<string> documentsToDelete = new List<string> {
    "http://coveo.com/parent/child",
    "http://coveo.com/parent"
};

client.DocumentManager.AddOrUpdateDocuments(sourceId, documentsToAdd, documentsToDelete, null);
```

> ## Adding securities to your documents

Reviewer 4: securities -> permissions
we should keep using the standard terminology, or it quickly becomes very confusing to new users.
(applies to other occurrences as well)

Author: ```suggestion
## Adding permissions to your documents
```

> You can add securities to documents, so only allowed users or groups can view the document. To learn how to format your permissions, see [Push API Tutorial 2 - Managing Secured Content](https://docs.coveo.com/en/98/cloud-v2-developers/push-api-tutorial-2---managing-secured-content).

Author: ```suggestion
You can add permissions to documents, so only allowed users or groups can view the document. To learn how to format your permissions, see [Push API Tutorial 2 - Managing Secured Content](https://docs.coveo.com/en/98/cloud-v2-developers/push-api-tutorial-2---managing-secured-content).
```

### Prerequisites

> 1. Ensure your push source is secured.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Ensure your [Push source is secured](https://docs.coveo.com/en/98/#step-1-configure-a-secured-push-source)
```

> 1. Create or update your source to be secured.

Reviewer 4: Ensure your [push source is secured](https://docs.coveo.com/en/98/#step-1-configure-a-secured-push-source).

Author: ```suggestion
1. Ensure your push source is secured.
```

> 1. Create or update your source to be secured.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Ensure your [Push source is secured]({{ site.baseurl }}/98/#step-1-configure-a-secured-push-source).
```

> 1. Ensure your API key has the required privileges to create a security provider. For more information about which privileges are required, visit [Privilege Reference](https://docs.coveo.com/en/1707/cloud-v2-administrators/privilege-reference#security-identities-domain).

Reviewer 4: "the required privileges to create a security provider" ->
"the privileges required to create a security identity provider"

Author: ```suggestion
1. Ensure your API key has the privileges required to create a security identity provider. For more information about which privileges are required, visit [Privilege Reference](https://docs.coveo.com/en/1707/cloud-v2-administrators/privilege-reference#security-identities-domain).
```

1. Create an `Expanded` security provider that cascades to `Email Security Provider` and link it to your source. Here is an example using the SDK:
```csharp
string expandedProviderId = "The unique name you want";
client.SecurityProviderManager.AddOrUpdateExpandedProviderAssociatedToEmailProvider(expandedProviderId, new List<string> { sourceId }, false);
```
**Good to know:**

> * The third argument of `AddOrUpdateExpandedProviderAssociatedToEmailProvider` is whether the provider is case-sensitive or not. If false, `acme\jdoe` is the same as `acme\JDOE`.

Reviewer 4: "is whether" -> "determines whether"

Author: ```suggestion
* The third argument of `AddOrUpdateExpandedProviderAssociatedToEmailProvider` determines whether the provider is case-sensitive or not. If false, `acme\jdoe` is the same as `acme\JDOE`.
```

### Add simple permissions to the document

> In this example, we add a document with a simple permissions model. It means that we set the allowed and denied users directly on the document. For more information, visit [Simple Permission Model Definition Examples](https://docs.coveo.com/en/107/cloud-v2-developers/simple-permission-model-definition-examples)

Reviewer 4: "permissions model" -> "permission model"

Author: ```suggestion
In this example, we add a document with a simple permission model. I.e., we set the allowed and denied users directly on the document. For more information, visit [Simple Permission Model Definition Examples](https://docs.coveo.com/en/107/cloud-v2-developers/simple-permission-model-definition-examples)
```

PermissionIdentity user = new PermissionIdentity(@"acme\johndoe", PermissionIdentityType.User);
PermissionIdentity group = new PermissionIdentity(@"acme\team", PermissionIdentityType.Group);

document.SetSimpleAllowedAndDeniedPermissions(new List<PermissionIdentity>{ user, group }, new List<PermissionIdentity>());

client.DocumentManager.AddOrUpdateDocument(sourceId, document, null);

// Push the permission mapping for a user from Active Directory to email.
PermissionIdentityBody userBody = new PermissionIdentityBody(user);
userBody.Mappings.Add(new PermissionIdentity("johndoe@acme.com", PermissionIdentityType.User));

// Push the permission mapping for a group from Active Directory to email.
PermissionIdentityBody groupBody = new PermissionIdentityBody(group);
groupBody.Mappings.Add(new PermissionIdentity("teammember1@team.acme.com", PermissionIdentityType.User));
groupBody.Mappings.Add(new PermissionIdentity("teammember2@team.acme.com", PermissionIdentityType.User));

client.PermissionManager.AddOrUpdateIdentity(expandedProviderId, null, userBody);
client.PermissionManager.AddOrUpdateIdentity(expandedProviderId, null, groupBody);
```

> ### Push identities in batch

Reviewer 4: Push a batch of identities

Author: ```suggestion
### Push a batch of identities
```

PermissionIdentity member1 = new PermissionIdentity(@"acme\member1", PermissionIdentityType.User);
PermissionIdentity member2 = new PermissionIdentity(@"acme\member2", PermissionIdentityType.User);

PermissionIdentityBody bodyMember1 = new PermissionIdentityBody(member1);
bodyMember1.Mappings.Add(new PermissionIdentity("member1@acme.com", PermissionIdentityType.User));

PermissionIdentityBody bodyMember2 = new PermissionIdentityBody(member2);
bodyMember2.Mappings.Add(new PermissionIdentity("member2@acme.com", PermissionIdentityType.User));

List<PermissionIdentityBody> mappingsMembersToAddOrUpdate = new List<PermissionIdentityBody> {
    bodyMember1,
    bodyMember2
};

List<PermissionIdentityBody> membersToAddOrUpdate = new List<PermissionIdentityBody> {
    new PermissionIdentityBody(new PermissionIdentity(@"acme\team2", PermissionIdentityType.Group)) {
        Members = new List<PermissionIdentity> {
            member1,
            member2
        }
    }
};

// Push user mappings and group members in one batched operation.
client.PermissionManager.AddOrUpdateIdentities(expandedProviderId, null, mappingsMembersToAddOrUpdate.Concat(membersToAddOrUpdate).ToList());
```

> ### Disable a single identity

Reviewer 4: It's ok to write "identity" rather than always "security identity", but we should be precise the first time. So:
"Disable a single identity" -> "Disable a single security identity"

Author: ```suggestion
### Disable a single security identity
```

You can easily disable an identity. For more information, visit [Disabling a Single Security Identity](https://docs.coveo.com/en/84/cloud-v2-developers/disabling-a-single-security-identity).
```csharp
client.PermissionManager.DeleteIdentity(expandedProviderId, new PermissionIdentity(@"acme\johndoe", PermissionIdentityType.User));
```

> ### Disable identities in batch

Reviewer 4: Disable a batch of identities

Author: ```suggestion
### Disable a batch of identities
```

```csharp
IList<PermissionIdentity> identitiesToDelete = new List<PermissionIdentity> {
    new PermissionIdentity(@"acme\member1", PermissionIdentityType.User),
    new PermissionIdentity(@"acme\member2", PermissionIdentityType.User)
};

client.PermissionManager.DeleteIdentities(expandedProviderId, null, identitiesToDelete);
```

### Disable identities older than a specific ordering ID

> Same as the documents, you can disable identities that have an ordering ID smaller than the one you provide. For more information, visit [Disabling Old Security Identities](https://docs.coveo.com/en/33/cloud-v2-developers/disabling-old-security-identities).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Same as with documents, you can disable identities that have an ordering ID smaller than the one you provide. For more information, visit [Disabling Old Security Identities](https://docs.coveo.com/en/33/cloud-v2-developers/disabling-old-security-identities).
```

```csharp
client.PermissionManager.AddOrUpdateIdentity(expandedProviderId, 100, new PermissionIdentityBody(new PermissionIdentity(@"acme\tobedeleted3", PermissionIdentityType.User)));
client.PermissionManager.AddOrUpdateIdentity(expandedProviderId, 200, new PermissionIdentityBody(new PermissionIdentity(@"acme\tobedeleted4", PermissionIdentityType.User)));

// Wait a little bit, then disable all identities with an ordering ID less than 300.
client.PermissionManager.DeleteIdentitiesOlderThan(expandedProviderId, 300);
```
**Good to know:**
* As for `DeleteDocumentsOlderThan`, there is a processing delay. However, it is not configurable for this call. For more information about processing delay, visit [QueueDelay](https://docs.coveo.com/en/131/cloud-v2-developers/deleting-old-items-in-a-push-source). 

### Add complex permissions to a document

> The permission model of your system might be more complicated, thus, simple permissions might not be enough to secure your documents. Below is an example of having two levels. One for the `Administrator` of the system and the other one for standard users. For more information, visit [Complex Permission Model Definition Example](https://docs.coveo.com/en/25/cloud-v2-developers/complex-permission-model-definition-example).

Reviewer 4: "Below is an example of having two levels."
-> "Below is an example of a two-level permission model."

Author: ```suggestion
The permission model of your system might be more complicated, thus, simple permissions might not be enough to secure your documents. Below is an example of a two-level permission model. One for the `Administrator` of the system and the other one for standard users. For more information, visit [Complex Permission Model Definition Example](https://docs.coveo.com/en/25/cloud-v2-developers/complex-permission-model-definition-example).
```

```csharp
PushDocument verySecureDocument = new PushDocument("http://www.coveo.com/verysecure") {
    ClickableUri = "http://www.coveo.com/verysecure",
    ModifiedDate = DateTime.UtcNow
};

DocumentPermissionSet adminSet = new DocumentPermissionSet {
    AllowedPermissions = new List<PermissionIdentity> {
        new PermissionIdentity(@"acme\admin", PermissionIdentityType.User)
    }
};

DocumentPermissionLevel adminLevel = new DocumentPermissionLevel {
    PermissionSets = new List<DocumentPermissionSet> { adminSet }
};

DocumentPermissionSet usersSet = new DocumentPermissionSet {
    AllowedPermissions = new List<PermissionIdentity> {
        new PermissionIdentity(@"acme\john", PermissionIdentityType.User)
    },
    DeniedPermissions = new List<PermissionIdentity> {
        new PermissionIdentity(@"acme\cannotaccess", PermissionIdentityType.User)
    }
};

DocumentPermissionLevel userLevel = new DocumentPermissionLevel {
    PermissionSets = new List<DocumentPermissionSet> { usersSet }
};

verySecureDocument.Permissions.Add(adminLevel);
verySecureDocument.Permissions.Add(userLevel);

client.DocumentManager.AddOrUpdateDocument(sourceId, verySecureDocument, null);
```

> Then, you can push your identities as we did before.

Reviewer 4: "as we did" -> "as you did"

Author: ```suggestion
Then, you can push your identities as you did before.
```

```csharp
PermissionIdentity allowedMember = new PermissionIdentity(@"acme\john", PermissionIdentityType.User);
PermissionIdentity deniedMember = new PermissionIdentity(@"acme\cannotaccess", PermissionIdentityType.User);
PermissionIdentity admin = new PermissionIdentity(@"acme\admin", PermissionIdentityType.User);

PermissionIdentityBody bodyAllowedMember = new PermissionIdentityBody(allowedMember);
bodyAllowedMember.Mappings.Add(new PermissionIdentity("john@acme.com", PermissionIdentityType.User));

PermissionIdentityBody bodyDeniedMember = new PermissionIdentityBody(deniedMember);
bodyDeniedMember.Mappings.Add(new PermissionIdentity("cannotaccess@acme.com", PermissionIdentityType.User));

PermissionIdentityBody bodyAdmin = new PermissionIdentityBody(admin);
bodyAdmin.Mappings.Add(new PermissionIdentity("admin@acme.com", PermissionIdentityType.User));

List<PermissionIdentityBody> mappingsMembersToAddOrUpdate = new List<PermissionIdentityBody> {
    bodyAllowedMember,
    bodyDeniedMember,
    bodyAdmin
};

> // Push user mappings and group members in one batched operation.

Reviewer 4: "batched operation." -> "batch operation"

Author: ```suggestion
// Push user mappings and group members in one batch operation.
```

client.PermissionManager.AddOrUpdateIdentities(expandedProviderId, null, mappingsMembersToAddOrUpdate);
```

## Activate logging

> The SDK uses `log4net` as its logging library. It can be useful to have some logs in case of a problem. In your log4net configuration, add a logger with `Coveo` as the name. We use namespaces as logger name. Using `Coveo` as the logger name will get you all the logs from the SDK. 

Reviewer 4: "to have some logs in case of a problem" -> "to have logs in case of problems"
"with `Coveo` as the name" -> "named `Coveo`"
"We use namespaces as logger name" -> "We use namespaces as logger names" (I think)

Author: ```suggestion
The SDK uses `log4net` as its logging library. It can be useful to have logs in case of problems. In your log4net configuration, add a logger with named `Coveo`. We use namespaces as logger names. Using `Coveo` as the logger name will get you all the logs from the SDK. 
```

**Good to know:**
* If you activate `Trace` level, you will get information about requests made by the SDK.

## Explore!

> Feel free to explore the other `Managers` that the `ICoveoPlatformClient` provides to you. Don't hesitate to provide us feedback, report bugs if any, and ask for a feature!

Reviewer 4: "to provide us feedback, report bugs if any, and ask for a feature!" ->
"to send us feedback, to report bugs if any, and to ask for a feature!"

Author: ```suggestion
Feel free to explore the other `Managers` that the `ICoveoPlatformClient` provides to you. Don't hesitate to send us feedback, to report bugs if any, and to ask for a feature!
```
